CRAN: comprehensive r archive network

 To get more information on
any specific named function, for example solve, the command is
> help(solve)
An alternative is
> ?solve

help("[[")

On most R installations help is available in HTML format by running
> help.start()
which will launch a Web browser that allows the help pages to be browsed with hyperlinks.


The help.search command (alternatively ??) allows searching for help in various ways. For example,
> ??solve
Try ?help.search for details and more examples.
The examples on a help topic can normally be run by
> example(topic)


If commands are stored in an external file, say commands.R in the working directory work, they may be executed at any time in an R session with the command
> source("commands.R")

During an R session, objects are created and stored by name (we discuss this process in the next session). The R command
> objects()
(alternatively, ls()) can be used to display the names of (most of) the objects which are currently stored within R. The collection of objects currently stored is called the workspace.
To remove objects the function rm is available:
> rm(x, y, z, ink, junk, temp, foo, bar)
All objects created during an R session can be stored permanently in a file for use in future R sessions. At the end of each R session you are given the opportunity to save all the currently available objects. If you indicate that you want to do this, the objects are written to a file called .RData6 in the current directory, and the command lines used in the session are saved to a file called .Rhistory.
When R is started at later time from the same directory it reloads the workspace from this file. At the same time the associated commands history is reloaded.

> x <- c(10.4, 5.6, 3.1, 6.4, 21.7)
This is an assignment statement using the function c() which in this context can take an arbitrary number of vector arguments and whose value is a vector got by concatenating its arguments end to end.

To work with complex numbers, supply an explicit complex part. Thus
sqrt(-17)
will give NaN and a warning, but
sqrt(-17+0i)
will do the computations as complex numbers.
